# Project-Linear-Power-Supply

We were assigned to design a 10V linear power
supply with a maximum current rating of 10A. A
linear power supply powers a load under constant
voltage conditions. The design will involve a
step-down transformer that is provided to reduce
the 230V input line voltage to 15V (rms) AC
voltage, which will then be rectified, smoothened
and regulated to produce the desired output. The
rectification stage was implemented using a
BR3510 bridge rectifier chip, and the smoothing
stage consists of capacitors. A 2SC5200 Darlington
pair, IN4738A Zener diodes (8.2V ), BC547
transistors, and resistors are used for voltage and
current limiting for a 10A maximum current. A
potentiometer was used to fine-tune the output
voltage to the required 10 volts. over current
protection has been added. Heat sinks have been
used to ensure proper heat dissipation. A 12V DC
fan was used to cool down the heating components.
The final product is a single-layer PCB with
high-power paths and a 3D-printed metal enclosure,
which will be a versatile and reliable power supply
suitable for a wide range of applications.
![Screenshot 2023-08-24 012311](https://github.com/NipunPushpakumara/Project-Linear-Power-Supply/assets/129825942/12d3763e-d64e-4522-bb06-ebb00c7057ff)

![Screenshot 2023-08-24 012153](https://github.com/NipunPushpakumara/Project-Linear-Power-Supply/assets/129825942/314ae4be-573c-44fc-9345-ebe3d02912eb)
